Production/test/condorSub/README.md, before:

# Production planning

The application `prodPlanner.py` provides several functions to assist with ntuple production planning.

## Size test definition

The file `sizetest.py` categorizes the major samples (MC backgrounds and primary datasets) 
and provides some associated information for each category:
* correction factor (based on comparing a size test to a full production)
* dictionary name (optional, in case the dictionary name does not correspond to the category name)
* sample (to use for [size test jobs](#size-test-jobs))
* type (data or MC)

Alternate versions of this file can be created manually or automatically (see below).

## Size test jobs

As an input to the [size projections](#size-projections), size test jobs should be run.

The following arguments can be supplied to `submitJobs.py`, along with whatever commands are normally used for production:
```
--mask sizetest.py --maxJobs 1 -d $(ls dict*.py | sed 's/dict_//; s/.py//' | tr '\n' ',' | sed 's/,$//')
```

The files for each size test should be output into their own specific directory, rather than the full ntuple production directory.

## Aggregate info

The aggregate information used in the [size projections](#size-projections) includes:
* number of events for each MC background category
* number of events for each primary dataset category
* actual size of existing ntuples (if available)

This info can be refreshed by calling:
```
python prodPlanner.py refresh
```

Options are available to restrict the refresh operation to only some of the above pieces of information  or to specify non-default names for the output files.

This is a separate function because this information does not need to be updated often (only when samples are changed/updated or a new ntuple production is done).

## Size projections

The aggregate and size test info can be combined into a projection table by calling:
```
python prodPlanner.py project -s sizetest.py ...
```

Important arguments:
* `-d, --dir [dir(s)]`: these are the location(s) of size tests, in order of priority. Multiple directories can be specified in case of variations in size tests that only affect a subset of categories.
* `-a, --actualAll` or `-A, --actualOther`: enables the use of the actual size of the full ntuple production, either for a full comparison or just to get the size of the "other" category (whatever small samples are not covered by the major categories in `sizetest.py`).
* `-u, --update`: update the correction factors, either in-place or by making a new file (controlled by `-o, --output [name]`).

Other options are available to specify non-default input names.

The output is a table with these columns:
```
         Sample  sizeEvt [kB]     nevents  projection [TB]  actual [TB]  correction  corrected [TB]
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

If `-a` is not used, the column "actual [TB]" will be omitted.

## Job assignments

Job assignments can be prepared by calling:
```
python prodPlanner.py assign
```

This function takes as input a file `production.py`, containing a list of dictionaries and a list of users, which must be prepared manually.

Options are available to specify an alternate input file, a rough number of maximum jobs per user, and the output directory for the assignment files.

Commit message:

add more info about assignments

Production/test/condorSub/README.md, after:

# Production planning

The application `prodPlanner.py` provides several functions to assist with ntuple production planning.

## Size test definition

The file `sizetest.py` categorizes the major samples (MC backgrounds and primary datasets) 
and provides some associated information for each category:
* correction factor (based on comparing a size test to a full production)
* dictionary name (optional, in case the dictionary name does not correspond to the category name)
* sample (to use for [size test jobs](#size-test-jobs))
* type (data or MC)

Alternate versions of this file can be created manually or automatically (see below).

## Size test jobs

As an input to the [size projections](#size-projections), size test jobs should be run.

The following arguments can be supplied to `submitJobs.py`, along with whatever commands are normally used for production:
```
--mask sizetest.py --maxJobs 1 -d $(ls dict*.py | sed 's/dict_//; s/.py//' | tr '\n' ',' | sed 's/,$//')
```

The files for each size test should be output into their own specific directory, rather than the full ntuple production directory.

## Aggregate info

The aggregate information used in the [size projections](#size-projections) includes:
* number of events for each MC background category
* number of events for each primary dataset category
* actual size of existing ntuples (if available)

This info can be refreshed by calling:
```
python prodPlanner.py refresh
```

Options are available to restrict the refresh operation to only some of the above pieces of information  or to specify non-default names for the output files.

This is a separate function because this information does not need to be updated often (only when samples are changed/updated or a new ntuple production is done).

## Size projections

The aggregate and size test info can be combined into a projection table by calling:
```
python prodPlanner.py project -s sizetest.py ...
```

Important arguments:
* `-d, --dir [dir(s)]`: these are the location(s) of size tests, in order of priority. Multiple directories can be specified in case of variations in size tests that only affect a subset of categories.
* `-a, --actualAll` or `-A, --actualOther`: enables the use of the actual size of the full ntuple production, either for a full comparison or just to get the size of the "other" category (whatever small samples are not covered by the major categories in `sizetest.py`).
* `-u, --update`: update the correction factors, either in-place or by making a new file (controlled by `-o, --output [name]`).

Other options are available to specify non-default input names.

The output is a table with these columns:
```
         Sample  sizeEvt [kB]     nevents  projection [TB]  actual [TB]  correction  corrected [TB]
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

If `-a` is not used, the column "actual [TB]" will be omitted.

## Job assignments

Job assignments can be prepared by calling:
```
python prodPlanner.py assign
```

This function takes as input a file `production.py`, containing a list of dictionaries and a list of users, which must be prepared manually.

The assignment algorithm:
1. sorts the dictionaries by their number of jobs
2. selects the dictionary with the largest number
3. adds dictionaries with the smallest numbers until a threshold is reached
4. removes the selected dictionaries from the list and repeats steps 2-3 for each user until all dictionaries are assigned

The threshold is a rough number of maximum jobs per user.
The value should be somewhat less than the total number of jobs divided by the total number of users.
It currently needs to be tuned by hand for optimal distribution.
The first and last users in the list tend to be assigned slightly more jobs than the others.

Options are available to specify an alternate input file, the maximum jobs per user, the output directory for the assignment files, and the verbosity of printouts.
